=== Achievements (130) [file Achievements.pr0000.json] ===
pmr598 [0,1] :: Before 1.12 / By Blood Alone: Go down the communist focus tree towards Pan-Balkan Initiative and instigate an uprising in ⟦0⟧. When the communists win the civil war, justify on them and declare war (they will not be guaranteed by anyone). Puppet Transylvania in the peace conference and give them all Romanian territory. Starting with 1.12, this doesn't work because of the rework of the peace conference system. You have two choices. Either go down Western focus branch, release Transylvania as a puppet using Autonomy for Slavic Transylvania, and then defeat Romania; or go Communist and defeat Romania ⟦1⟧ (first to create the Transylvania puppet, then to give them the rest of Romanian cores). The second route is extra-hard (on historical, anyway), because you need to do it all before the Soviet Union demands Bessarabia in mid-1940.
11ly0e8 [0,1,2] :: It can be done quickly as ⟦0⟧. The Japanese fleet is immediately capable of sinking not just the HMS Hood, but the entire Royal Navy if played properly. Choose Purge the Kodoha Faction and justify on the ⟦1⟧ (or ⟦2⟧) as soon as possible. Ask Germany for docking rights, and move your entire fleet to their port nearest to the UK. Use the bulk of your fleet as a strike force, with three groups of destroyers patrolling the naval areas around the UK. If possible, you can also use naval bombers as well for added firepower. When the justification has finished, declare war on them. If Germany invites you to the Axis you should accept in order to use their airfields. From there just keep beating the Brits and building new ships and bombers (importing Oil for fuel if needed) until your fleet sinks the Hood and unlocks the achievement.
ypqdz8 [0,1,2,3,4,5] :: Take the focus Revise the Constitution then take Balkans Dominance. Build an army to at least 500k manpower and take the Align Hungary and Split Czechoslovakia focuses. If Hungary refuses, win the war and puppet them. Germany should also agree to split ⟦0⟧ giving ⟦1⟧ a ⟦2⟧ puppet. Take the Appoint Pro-Axis Government, take the Fascist Demagogue and flip to fascism. Then head to Force Abdication. Remove the Fascist Demagogue once Romania flips to fascism. Wait until Germany declares war against ⟦3⟧ and ⟦4⟧ joins the Axis. Join the war but do not let Hungary and Slovakia into the war. Place the army on the Bulgarian Border. Take King Michael's Coup to flip to democratic and wait until Poland capitulates and the ⟦5⟧ takes Eastern Poland. Take the "Join the Allies" decision and capitulate Bulgaria.
f2tsvh [0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11] :: Rush down the ⟦0⟧ route and take the Hispanic Alliance focus to invite all fascist or non-aligned Hispanic American countries. There is an 80% chance for them to accept your invitation (independent of opinion or diplomatic pressure). In 1936, these countries are ⟦1⟧, ⟦2⟧, ⟦3⟧, ⟦4⟧, ⟦5⟧, ⟦6⟧, ⟦7⟧ and ⟦8⟧, with ⟦9⟧ and ⟦10⟧ potentially flipping later. NOTE: make sure to take the focus when as many of them as possible are eligible, because it's a one-time thing; once the focus event fires, short of conquering them, it becomes extremely difficult to add anyone who refused or was ineligible at the time. Unless they are in a war, they'll need 30% fascist support, fascist government, +100 opinion, 100% diplomatic pressure, ⟦11⟧ some special factor like having a border with you, to make them accept.
xd5ky5 [0,1,2,3] :: ⟦0⟧ Go the ⟦1⟧ path down to "Union Nacional Fascista" and build up your industry and a capable army. Get military access from ⟦2⟧ or even join the Axis via focus. Either way naval invade ⟦3⟧ when their civil war is over and your army is ready. They'll have very few equipment but will try to conquer any bridgehead you establish. This will cause them to have a massive equipment deficit quickly so you can overrun them easily. (Naval invading from countries you only have military access to works when you first set up a naval invasion from your country to the point from where you want to naval invade your actual target. For example set up from Buenos Aires to Sardinia and then you should be able to plan from Sardinia).
1aedmlt [0,1,2,3] :: Play on non-historical and ensure ⟦0⟧ goes for Support the Kodoha Faction. Take Subjugate the Warlords. If they do not accept peacefully, use your war goals to puppet them by force. Complete the series of ⟦1⟧ decisions which appear after ⟦2⟧ and ⟦3⟧ are puppetted. Alternatively, defeat them the old-fashioned way (possibly after taking One China Policy focus) and then reduce their autonomy by building stuff (including border-to-border level 5 forts and supply depots) on their territories and/or lend-leasing supplies to them. The achievement can even be done by annexing them in a war, releasing them as puppets, and then reintegrating them (in case "puppet" is not an available option in the peace conference.)
kesifs [0,1,2] :: Before the civil war fires delete all land units and make a single cavalry division in training. Deploy it in Athens after the war starts and take all victory points to quickly end the civil war. Naval invade Crete ⟦0⟧ if necessary. With ⟦1⟧, civil war can be triggered by not arresting the King and going down the The Right to Rule path. Without ⟦2⟧, you have to manually trigger a civil war using party popularity mechanics. Since you have a timer for when the civil war starts, you can time the Reorganize the Royal Guard focus to complete one day after the civil war starts. If you have deleted all units previously, the two units granted by the focus will be enough to immideately win the war.
133rzn7 [0,1,2,3] :: Easiest as the ⟦0⟧ since it already controls all the territory needed, except ⟦1⟧, ⟦2⟧ and ⟦3⟧. Take The King's Party focus route, justify and annex the 3 independent nations of the peninsula. Make a camel template and train 30 of them. You start the game with camels unlocked, but you have to make the template yourself. NOTE: Territory needs to be owned directly (not through puppets and not merely occupied), you'll need to reduce autonomy and annex Oman (which is easy), and, if the British Raj failed to hand over Aden back in 1936, you'll have to annex the Raj too (which is trickier, since The King's Party sets it on the path for independence and gives it a large daily autonomy boost).
vqamzq [0,1,2,3,4] :: You only need to occupy the states, not own them. Switch to communist and get as many Balkan countries as possible in your faction. The country will flip above 60% communist support ( ⟦0⟧ and ⟦1⟧ are particularly important to get on your side). Any Balkan country in your faction can be annexed through the The Unification of the Balkans focus. Once you have established the Federation, attack whoever still controls land in the Balkans and capitulate ⟦2⟧. ⟦3⟧ ⟦4⟧ needs to be in a faction when they capitulate to satisfy the "at war" and "has capitulated" requirements. Otherwise when they capitulate, they are no longer at war and the achievement doesn't fire.
fy4mki [0] :: Follow the "Oppose Hitler" branch of the focus tree. An event will pop up as the focus is in progress. Select the "ensure loyalty of the Kreigsmarine". Fail the timed event in the decisions tab that asks for the progression towards certain naval focuses. Once the timed event has failed another event will pop, choose the decision that puts Erich Raeder in power. Justify or obtain war goal on the United Kingdom and have them capitulate to you ⟦0⟧ Achievement requires the United Kingdom to capitulate, but does not check whether Germany triggered the capitulation. Will be granted even by the end of a civil war in the United Kingdom.
1oiy6nr [0,1] :: After completing The Fate of the Balkans you get the ability to peacefully puppet any nation with a Balkan capital who is in your faction, as well as the capacity to force them into your faction if they are not already in one. A puppeted ⟦0⟧ can be integrated with its constituent states released as puppets for this achievement, or you can seize 803 ⟦1⟧ from them via decision. These states can make the puppets Macedonia and Serbia. In order to get states to join your faction via decision it is important to have more manpower deployed to the field, and puppet expeditionary forces contribute to this number.
4emuru [0,1,2] :: As ⟦0⟧, play on non-historical in order to prevent the Sino-Japanese war ( ⟦1⟧ going communist is ideal). Make a fallback line on your capital and declare an early war on ⟦2⟧ while holding your capital with 9-12 divisions. Research infantry equipment and artillery only (at some point some of your divisions may run out of organization and die, so deploy a few extra divisions before it happens). If the AI stops attacking you, bait it to attack by training your divisions. If a General becomes level 9 before your field marshal, you may promote the General to field marshal and you will get the achievement.
fqc3r5 [] :: The event chain starts once Germany gains the Sudetenland via their Demand Sudetenland focus, after Czechoslovakia has been betrayed by their allies. 6 days after the initial event the second event will trigger and immediately change your name. If you select the "We need radical change" option in that event your name will also change to "Czecho-Slovak Republic", which is redundant due to the immediate effect of the event. Furthermore, 14 days after the second event a third event will demand you release Slovakia as a puppet. Releasing Slovakia will again also change your name (which is also redundant).
zlw99 [0,1,2,3] :: When the civil war fires, chose the option for divisions, rather than territory and do the Mobilize the Veteran Legionaries focus ASAP. When you attack ⟦0⟧ DO NOT finish the war, but try to push a bit in the south and cause some casualties. When WW2 starts, attack ⟦1⟧ and join Axis. If Germany doesn't let you join, reload the save and they will let you. Once ⟦2⟧ capitulates, just ask Germany for control of Paris. (You should have enough war score from the war against ⟦3⟧). If it still is not enough, try giving Germany some of the occupied territories in Argentina.
1sacntv [0,1,2,3,4,5] :: Uncheck ⟦0⟧ Go into Custom Game Rules and into the AI behavior tab. Changing a country's path from ⟦1⟧ to a defined path makes the game non-iron man, but not if you specifically select the historical route, e.g. changing Germany's path from ⟦2⟧ to ⟦3⟧. Now change every country you want to stay historical from ⟦4⟧ to their ironman-compatible set path, with every country you want to possibly go a-historical still set on ⟦5⟧. This way, the game will only have countries with Default set as their path possibly go non-historical, though it is not guaranteed.
13dtvd5 [0,1,2,3,4,5,6] :: Rush towards Proclaim the Third Empire focus to get ⟦0⟧. Wait until Germany declares war on ⟦1⟧ and then declare war on the ⟦2⟧. Accept the invitation to join Germany's faction. Your starting army and fleet will be enough to destroy the ⟦3⟧. Annex them in the peace conference. Guarantee ⟦4⟧ when the USSR starts justifying a war goal on them. Accept the call to arms and invite the rest of the Axis. This will make the war easier as the ⟦5⟧ will not receive the "Great Patriotic War" buff. Earn enough warscore and ask your allies for control of Moscow ⟦6⟧.
ui0cbb [0,1,2] :: This is achievement requires a lot of grinding. Go ⟦0⟧ and keep the empire from falling apart. Take out the ⟦1⟧ early and give their territory to Canada to form the Dominion of North America. Later forming the Imperial Federation will then also include the US, giving one of the highest core population possible in the game, especially after also integrating Europe by forming the European Federation. Make sure to justify on as many smaller countries as possible while at war with a major power to speed up the process. Pairs well with ⟦2⟧.
8o8rtb [0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11,12,13,14,15,16,17] :: Easiest as the East India Company. Here is how to get a state in all continents: Using Just Good Business, you can get ⟦0⟧ ⟦1⟧ (Australia), ⟦2⟧ ⟦3⟧ (South America) and any state in the ⟦4⟧ (Europe), via a naval invasion from Britain to the Netherlands, using the British navy. Then you can purchase ⟦5⟧ ⟦6⟧ (North America), ⟦7⟧ ⟦8⟧ or ⟦9⟧ ⟦10⟧ (Africa), and ⟦11⟧ ⟦12⟧ (Middle East). Alternatively, you can purchase ⟦13⟧ ⟦14⟧ and ⟦15⟧ ⟦16⟧ for the Middle East and South America requirements, if you want to also get the ⟦17⟧ achievement.
7sm4ji [] :: Make your way to Realpolitik and create a "Bastion of Liberty" faction. Use your first initiative point to allow your faction to host governments in exile. Guarantee Finland. Wait for the Winter War to start and accept the Call to Arms. Improve relations and send an attache to Finland. You should have enough relations to invite them to your faction despite the distance. It's important to invite them quickly, as they will white peace the Soviets if they aren't in a faction. Once they capitulate you will get the achievement.
w3xfvb [0,1] :: Simply play as ⟦0⟧ on Historical, and go down the Continue the War in Batavia branch. There is no point in trying to defend your European lands (as Continue the War in Batavia requires you to have capitulated), so build up your Asian possessions. Once Germany is defeated, you will have control of your homeland back, and you can complete Liberation and earn the achievement. ⟦1⟧ You will need to have removed the "Shell-shocked Spectator of the Great War" spirit, so make sure you complete War on Pacifism as soon as possible.
1o3s8mf [0,1,2] :: Start as ⟦0⟧ and get to 5 ⟦1⟧, either by training or hiring military advisor. Create a 1 width division and rush train as many as possible (make sure to set it to the highest priority in the recruiting tab so it gets guns first). Deploy them as soon as they reach the minimum training level and just switch them to the normal template. ⟦2⟧: You can only train 75% of the manpower currently on the field with a minimum of 100.00K. So that means you must have at least 1,333,334 manpower on the field to do this achievement.
v0ar78 [0,1] :: Simply play historical and join the Allies. You need 50% more factories and fielded manpower than the ⟦0⟧, which shouldn't be a problem after a few years of buildup. Once you become faction leader, create an invasion order and press the button below the army to request 51 expeditionary forces and earn the achievement. ⟦1⟧ The UK will accept to send the 51 divisions you need if they have ~160 divisions, you can send them some of your own troops as expeditionary forces to get them past that number.
z5fn0z [0] :: It is recommended to play as a ⟦0⟧ nation to avoid the diplomatic penalty from different ideology which may block the “Request License Production” option. Improve relations with five of the seven major powers then license the basic infantry weapons. (Researching the next level of infantry equipment also works, as even major nations have few problems with licensing outdated equipment). With La Résistance, you can use an agent and assign him to put diplomatic pressure on majors as well.
1a0j600 [0,1,2,3,4,5] :: Play as ⟦0⟧ on historical. Go down the ⟦1⟧ side of the focus tree and pick the focus Establishing a Foothold to get a wargoal on ⟦2⟧. Simply defeat and puppet them in the peace deal that follows. Once you reach 60% ⟦3⟧ popularity, continue down the focus tree and either create your own faction (Argentina First) or join the Axis. Near the bottom of the ⟦4⟧ tree you'll find the focus The Old Enemy giving you a war goal on ⟦5⟧. Once you declare your war the achievement will unlock.
10rpxqi [0] :: Choose to invite Trotsky in the "Trotsky seeks refuge" event. Follow the rightmost side of the focus tree to become communist and put Trotsky in charge. Join Germany's war against the ⟦0⟧ via the Smash the Bureaucrats focus. To gain warscore, ask Germany for military access and put your troops on their front line. Alternatively, try to naval invade the Soviets' far east front and capture a few victory point provinces. During the peace conference, puppet the Soviet Union.
sszdcv [0,1,2,3] :: ⟦0⟧ The Mughal Empire ⟦1⟧ tag can only be gained by completing Unite the Subcontinent national focus ⟦2⟧ completing Expand the Silk Road. This achievement can be combined with ⟦3⟧. An easy way to do it is to simply guarantee the independence of Greece and/or Yugoslavia, so that you will find yourself in a defensive war against the Axis on the same side as the Allies. The UK will let you join the allies and you can easily become the spymaster once you are in.
pzw8gx [0] :: At the start of the game focus on building military factories in Valencia. As long as you control Valencia when the Anarchist uprising fires, you will be given control of it. Easier if the ⟦0⟧ are weakened by the Carlist rebellion. This can be done by keeping control of the northern states (Asturias & Pais Vasco) for as long as possible. On non-historical, they may also simply not take the focuses in the right order to prevent the uprising from happening.
1vy56ui [0,1,2,3] :: You need to move your fleet into the Black Sea before Turkey remilitarises the Bosphorus Strait. You can increase its range by basing it in Cyprus. Go down the Empower the Workers path towards Join Comintern. Justify a wargoal on ⟦0⟧ and attack from the ⟦1⟧. Turkey will guard Istanbul, but leave Erdine undefended. Call them into the war and naval invade ⟦2⟧ ⟦3⟧. The achievement only requires control of the state, so it can be gained while at war.
ly67lb [0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8] :: Boost fascism in ⟦0⟧ from the start of the game, then complete Danzig for Slovakia to gain control of Danzig ⟦1⟧ without going to war with ⟦2⟧. If France hasn't flipped by the time you get Danzig ⟦3⟧, start a fascist coup in France. As soon as the coup fires, you'll get the achievement. ⟦4⟧ ⟦5⟧ flag fires when Germany declares war on ⟦6⟧. However, you should be able to ⟦7⟧ a war against them, e.g. if ⟦8⟧ declares war and asks you to join.
iknltm [0,1] :: The Megali Idea involves you, UK, and ⟦0⟧ agreeing to attack and split up ⟦1⟧ so you are guaranteed the land required in the peace deal. Do note that the UK and France can individually bail on the war when you complete the focus to attack Turkey even if they agreed at the convention, but it is still easy to beat Turkey with just one of them and is possible to beat them by yourself. (See also notes for "Istanbul is Constantinople. Again.")
dgia8k [] :: The Regency Council is formed through Form a Regency Council focus. Go for Plot Against Boris focus and pick the decisions to kill him, then choose a pro-Axis regent and join the Axis. Going down "The democratic principle" seems easier than "The Tsars regime". Prince Paul will be replaced by Peter II in February 1941, and Germany will attack Yugoslavia soon after. Join the war to get the achievement.
1k7gq50 [0,1,2,3] :: You can start this by either subjugating ⟦0⟧ with the monarchist path, or by going down ⟦1⟧ or ⟦2⟧, getting a foothold in Iberia by declaring on one (or more) of the Spanish Civil War factions, and taking land when they capitulate that borders Portugal. If you subjugate them, it's easier if you take ⟦3⟧ and give it to your Portugese puppet so you can build on the land and lower their autonomy easier.
1uw669q [0,1,2] :: ⟦0⟧ To get the ⟦1⟧ country flag, you must annex ⟦2⟧ without being in a faction. The "not in a faction" check is done when Japan gets annexed, so theoretically you are free to join factions during the game if you want to, as long as you leave before you annex Japan. Remember that if you call your faction members to war, you will not be able to leave until after the peace conference.
114xnsi [0] :: Play historical. Go down the ⟦0⟧ route, build fascist support until you can take Guardia Nacional, then wait until Germany has capitulated. The event will fire soon after. No other condition is necessary, you can be at war with Germany yourself, and as getting Señor Hilter in power is the first option in the event, it should select itself if you prefer to be afk the entire time.
1j5lgi6 [0,1,2,3] :: Turn historical AI off, since the ⟦0⟧ may take the Revisit Colonial Policy branch of its focus tree containing the focus Withdraw from Contested Territories which will give Gibraltar ⟦1⟧ to ⟦2⟧ for free along with it becoming a core state. If this occurs during the civil war, Gibraltar ⟦3⟧ may not be given to the player's Spain but will be transferred once the civil war is won.
vgij4z [0,1] :: With Götterdämmerung, you must complete the End the Regency to get Horthy as an advisor. Otherwise, you must complete Invite the Habsburg Prince. After that, you can go for any path under Reinstate the Pragmatic Sanction of 1713 to get wargoals on ⟦0⟧ or ⟦1⟧. Build up your industry and army, conquer either one, research and deploy a battleship and assign Horthy to that fleet.
gc4jy [0,1,2,3,4,5,6] :: Simply follow the guide for ⟦0⟧ which will put Western Europe under your control. At this point, it should be easy to launch an invasion on ⟦1⟧ ⟦2⟧ and ⟦3⟧ ⟦4⟧. Get intel on the ⟦5⟧ or call ⟦6⟧ into the war to help with gaining naval superiority. The British Isles will be weakly defended, and once you have a stable port beachhead, it should be trivial to conquer them.
t637b0 [0,1] :: At game start, establish an agency and set your operatives on "Establish Spy Network" mission in ⟦0⟧ ⟦1⟧. The achievement will trigger once the network strength is over 50%. You can do this as soon as you have recruited your first operative but the more operatives you assign to establish a network in the same region, the faster the network will be at full strength.
1ttdf3y [0,1,2,3] :: As of 1.16.9, likely due to a bug, this achievement calls for the control of ⟦0⟧ ⟦1⟧, which is only a claim, but not for ⟦2⟧ ⟦3⟧, which is one of Kurdistan's cores. As such, if you seize all the required states and attempt to release Kurdistan, the achievement won't fire. You'll have to go to war with Turkey and seize control of Malatya to get the achievement.
qiq4sf [0,1] :: As a democratic nation, build a lot of planes, namely strategic bombers and fighters, and rush nuclear technology. Germany will control Paris. When in the Allies, move your planes to the airfield on the ⟦0⟧ Isles and set them on mission to Northern ⟦1⟧ when the nuclear tech is ready and one nuke is available. Achieve air superiority and nuke Paris when ready.
1mik9g7 [0,1,2,3,4] :: Start the game as the ⟦0⟧, justify and declare war on ⟦1⟧ and call ⟦2⟧ into the war. After capitulating Poland, give them all Polish states. Kick them from your faction and justify a war goal on them. Declare war but ⟦3⟧ capitulate them. Since they don't have the means to properly suppress resistance, you can just wait until the resistance in ⟦4⟧ hits 90.
90xlpp [0,1,2] :: Picking a country that already starts with an authoritarian government like ⟦0⟧ or ⟦1⟧ can speed things up. Spam 2-width divisions to reach the threshold for sending volunteers (30) and when Germany attacks ⟦2⟧ on historical, simply send a few volunteers. If world tension is too low justify a war goal on the USA to spike it.
1ifwiys [0,1] :: On historical mode, start as ⟦0⟧ and do absolutely nothing. Save up 750+ political power. When Germany declares war on you, make sure to join the Allies. Since you have no divisions, the Germans will capitulate you almost immediately. Once capitulated, change your conscription law to ⟦1⟧, and the achievement should fire.
18i0ok2 [0,1] :: Concede territory to avoid wars and just research. Even when you get overrun and conquered by Germany and/or the ⟦0⟧, you will continue the game as a government-in-exile hosted by the ⟦1⟧ and remain eligible for the achievement. As long as the Allies survive, you can continue doing research to get the achievement.
809mhd [0] :: To host a government in exile you need to be the leader of a faction which has the rule "allows hosting exiled governments". This is set by default on only a small handful of base factions, and the easiest ways to get this achievement (one of which is outlined in the next paragraph) require ⟦0⟧ to be enabled.
1a18fdz [] :: Not clear how (or if!) this is doable as Yugoslavia: the problem is that the only possible Yugoslavian underage monarch, Peter II, loses his 'underage monarch' trait in September 1941 when he turns 18, but Tsar Boris III of Bulgaria only dies in 1943 under historical AI, and you have no way to influence that.
1m8z936 [0] :: Can be done as any ideology. Make sure to improve relations and save up a few hundred ⟦0⟧ before starting Hold the Imperial Conference. 300-400 political power is a good number to have saved before starting but if you can spare the time and effort, having around 600-700 political power will ensure success.
7094ws [0,1] :: Either go ⟦0⟧ or ⟦1⟧, focus on getting manpower to build a small army and some cheap submarines. If the USA gets Newfoundland through the focus they do normally garrison the port with 1 division. Regardless, plan your naval invasion. Declare your war and simply wait. At some point the invasion will launch.
mhriye [0,1] :: Turn fascist by going down the National Regeneration path. Join the Axis '⟦0⟧, and rush research towards ⟦1⟧. Make sure to also build as many naval dockyards as possible. Take focuses that help with research, construction speed and dockyard output. Assign all available dockyards to producing destroyers.
1ouagty [0,1] :: Assign whatever Scientists to ⟦0⟧, but you MUST choose Oppenheimer for ⟦1⟧. Make sure to check out iterations and decisions during the research. If an event comes up asking you to decide whether to keep or dismiss Oppenheimer from the project, keep him. Once the project completes, the achievement pops.
j1jk1g [0,1,2,3] :: ⟦0⟧ Do ⟦1⟧ take the focus Reconcile Japan since North Sakhalin is your core! Turn off historical German focuses, leaving everything else on historical. Alternatively, declare war on ⟦2⟧ early, releasing Belarus and Ukraine as puppets ⟦3⟧ and leave them outside of the war for an easier defensive line.
1yaxuor [0,1,2] :: Avoid the civil war and flip ⟦0⟧. Use your first ~70 ⟦1⟧ to justify a War goal on ⟦2⟧ which should take almost a year. Take the focus Beneath the Shadow of the Triple Alliance to get the other two war goals around the same date. Simply declare war on all three countries when you have all war goals.
jjqtws [] :: The earlier the war, the better your odds. Go down the Collective Security branch and pick Eradicate Western Fascism (mid-1939 to optimize the attack bonus). Refuse the Molotov-Ribbentrop pact, and attack the German when they close in on Paris. Collaboration Government in Germany could be helpful.
1t76nk8 [0] :: Build an intelligence agency and make sure to get the Suicide Pills upgrade. Keep sending your operatives on missions, or just have them perform various activities like 'Build Intel Network' in other countries (preferably the ⟦0⟧). Eventually one of them will die and the achievement will trigger.
1v9bxfr [0] :: Start as the ⟦0⟧ and build up Egypt as much as possible. Once completely full of military factories, release Egypt as a puppet (check "Play as" when the checkbox appears). Increase your autonomy in any way possible: lend lease (trains and convoys are excellent), continuous focus and attaché.
s2pebo [0,1,2,3,4,5] :: ⟦0⟧ count toward total factories. Simply go ⟦1⟧ and conquer ⟦2⟧ and ⟦3⟧. If you end up at war with the Allies, don't worry. Simply join the Axis. When Germany punches into ⟦4⟧ through your territory and capitulates them, you will occupy all of ⟦5⟧, thus giving you the necessary factories.
24gdta [] :: Make sure to select the "Police Chief Eisenhower steps in" option in the assassination event. The achievement will fire after Macarthur seizes power. Since all events in the chain have a MTTH, it can take a while after taking the assassination focus before you get your achievement.
7vz7yd [0] :: This achievement is ideally tackled as a nation that can receive more than just the standard nuclear research bonus in the generic focus tree. Germany is an ideal choice if one goes ⟦0⟧, given that on top of a bonus to nuclear weapons, it can get an ahead of time bonus on nukes.
6tz7oq [0,1,2,3] :: Easy and quick with ⟦0⟧ or ⟦1⟧. Use the research bonuses from the military branch of the focus tree to get nuclear weapons early. As ⟦2⟧ you need some fighters to guarantee air superiority. As ⟦3⟧ just release Y Wladychfa Gymreig as a free country and then justify a war goal.
xp8p0a [0,1] :: If Germany is the last major in its faction then capitulating it will end the war and the achievement will not fire. Capitulating it before ⟦0⟧ is recommended, unless one of the Balkan Axis countries becomes a major. Any faction that includes the ⟦1⟧ counts as 'the Allies'.
d0qa4b [0,1] :: The decision to form Greater Greece is unlocked either by the focus Nenikikamen while your leader is not ⟦0⟧, by completing the focus The Modern Movement and choosing to have ⟦1⟧ as your country leader, or by completing the focus Prepare for the Great Anti-Fascist War.
6p4yr6 [0,1,2] :: The easiest way to earn this achievement is to simply play on historical as the ⟦0⟧ and build as many ⟦1⟧ as possible. The Arsenal of Democracy branch of the focus tree gives ⟦2⟧ for free, so make sure you complete it, along with the WPA branch to boost your industry.
vqj3hm [0] :: Follow the focus tree to Alliance with Germany. Justify against ⟦0⟧ and launch a naval invasion of Normandy. It is not necessary to call Germany into the war. If France is puppeted, the achievement will not fire. Annex all cores, territories, and colonies to be sure.
1jmti7q [0,1,2] :: Play as ⟦0⟧ and go down the Balkan Dominance branch. Increase your power as much as possible, by focusing on army, industry and by taking out Hungary and ⟦1⟧. Join the Axis, but ⟦2⟧. When they are defeated, you will become the leader, earning you the achievement.
zddg9d [0] :: On historical mode, play as ⟦0⟧. Wait for world tension to reach 50% so you can do the Northern Defense Front national focus, which makes a faction and invites the other Scandinavian countries to it. The AI should join if it is not already in a faction.
1iheu4w [0,1,2,3,4,5] :: As ⟦0⟧, remove your divisions from ⟦1⟧ ⟦2⟧ or ⟦3⟧ ⟦4⟧(keeping your ports for maximum efficiency). Lay mines on the Ethiopian shore with your starting navy until you reach 1000 mines. However, if you lose all your territory you will white peace with ⟦5⟧.
a1fpze [0,1,2] :: The ⟦0⟧ has the highest chance of capturing operatives, so expand your operative slots and send them all to the ⟦1⟧. After an operative gets captured, rescue them and send them to the ⟦2⟧ again. Once they get captured again, the achievement will fire.
bn8f62 [0,1,2,3,4] :: With ⟦0⟧ disabled, head for Quit India Movement and develop, build and deploy a nuclear bomb (remember to get some strategic bombers and fighters for air superiority). Potential targets include ⟦1⟧ once ⟦2⟧ joins the Allies or ⟦3⟧ once they join ⟦4⟧.
1equx21 [] :: Progress towards the next stages (funds) is gained by either researching with the according MIO assigned to the research and/or by producing equipment with the MIO assigned. Best done with the USA as they have a strong economy and research abilities.
hel8dn [0] :: Can be done without ⟦0⟧ . Simply take the decisions to improve worker conditions and do anti-fascist raids for more stability. Build max infrastructure in all your states. Take Construction Effort and Infrastructure Effort focuses to speed things up.
1wqlamj [] :: It is not possible to gain achievements if the checksum has been changed - either by tampering with game files, or by running the game using mods that affect gameplay mechanics (graphical mods do not affect checksum), or a corrupted installation.
1l25kf4 [0,1,2] :: Collaborating with the Axis is the simplest route to achieving this. Help the Axis capitulate the Allies and the Comintern, and grab South Georgia ⟦0⟧ and Georgia ⟦1⟧. South Georgia ⟦2⟧ can also be obtained via the Reaffirm Monroe Doctrine focus.
125kokw [0] :: Battlecruisers are built with "Heavy Ship Hulls" and "Battlecruiser armor". Make the cheapest battlecruisers you can and build 6 at the same time ( ⟦0⟧ start with 3) with all your dockyards assigned, build more dockyards to speed up construction.
194y4we [0,1,2,3,4] :: Go fascist and justify on ⟦0⟧ once you flip. Since ⟦1⟧ is guaranteeing Albania they will join ⟦2⟧ once you declare war on them. Make sure to rush for the port so that the ⟦3⟧ cannot bring over their troops. Capitulate ⟦4⟧ and take all their land.
n457tg [0,1] :: Rush fascist and justify a war goal on the ⟦0⟧, drawing in the ⟦1⟧. Train a lot of cavalry divisions and try to poke holes in the US line and encircle their troops. They should not have enough divisions to cover the entire border sufficiently.
2pd5q0 [] :: Then, take the "Reino de Filipinas" focus and unify with the faction member countries, in that specific case, with Spain. Because of the civil war, you need to core half of Spain manually when you reach the necessary compliance level.
1y4dy6w [0,1,2] :: You only need to occupy the state. Turn fascist and justify on ⟦0⟧. Build ~10 submarines and declare war. Capture a port in Greenland and then invade ⟦1⟧. Note that you ⟦2⟧ be in a faction with countries outside South America.
m0cgu6 [0,1,2,3,4,5] :: ⟦0⟧ Kurdistan cannot be released by ⟦1⟧, Syria, ⟦2⟧ and ⟦3⟧ if ⟦4⟧ is enabled. This achievement is now possible (patch 1.16.5) through the Iraq focus tree with ⟦5⟧ enabled if you go down the Promote Kurdish Identity path.
1q39v25 [0,1,2,3,4] :: ⟦0⟧: Generals or field marshals directly commanding divisions gain experience much faster than field marshals commanding armies. Can be done together with ⟦1⟧ while doing ⟦2⟧ or ⟦3⟧. Alternatively done together with ⟦4⟧.
6mvwbu [] :: Choose the fascist demagogue as your first advisor and turn fascist. Avoid civil war if possible. Join the Axis and help them in their wars. Germany has to survive until they research Tiger tank - at least late 1943.
1a2yyzh [0] :: Completing either Full Desegregation or Union Representation Act will trigger a civil war with the Confederacy. To help the ⟦0⟧ win the war, complete the WPA branch and Guarantee the American Dream beforehand.
bv8oqe [0,1] :: Go down the Unify the Nationalist Front path, win the civil war, and head for Join the Axis. Join the war once Germany attacks the Benelux and gain enough war score for Germany to give you control of ⟦0⟧ ⟦1⟧.
1jg6pci [0,1] :: Flip ⟦0⟧ and join the ⟦1⟧ to stay safe from German aggression. Repeatedly take Balance of Power decisions to push towards the Welfare side. Also hire and/or fire advisors to influence the Balance of Power.
e6fddh [0] :: Start as any non-aligned country and get a spy with the seducer trait. ⟦0⟧ is the easiest target as they have a high non-aligned popularity at the start and won't be building a spy agency until later.
uvbyry [] :: Note: If you are adamant on getting this achievement without disabling La Résistance for whatever reason, try rolling back to Patch 1.13.7 to stop the UK from investing so heavily in counterespionage.
5ubwwr [0] :: Invent and build fighters, strategic bombers and nukes. Wait for ⟦0⟧ and let them conquer one state, which you should nuke. Use your own fighters or wait for the Allies to help with air superiority.
uieud2 [0,1] :: Easiest as the ⟦0⟧. ⟦1⟧ 2 special projects require certain research to be completed - Intercontinental Bomber requires Improved Large Airframe, and Land Cruiser requires Super-Heavy Tank Chassis.
acct7 [] :: Rush down the monarchist path. Going ahistorical makes this achievement easier. If you complete Fight for Silesia you get the option for a limit war with Germany after conquering Upper Silesia.
hifg6s [] :: Can be done in a historical playthrough, but it's easiest to achieve when Germany goes for Oppose Hitler. Attack the Monarchist (or both sides) before they can recover from the civil war.
cbbjh0 [0,1] :: Choose fascist demagogue as your first ⟦0⟧ spending, turn fascist (skip civil war option), complete Invite German Military Mission and join the Axis. Justify and declare war on the ⟦1⟧.
5j4gvt [0,1,2] :: Play as ⟦0⟧ ⟦1⟧ and declare war on ⟦2⟧. Puppet as many of their colonies as possible. Then, go down the Revisit Colonial Policy branch of your focus tree, releasing a lot of subjects.
trndgr [] :: You must have the highest war score of all participants. It may be easier to annex a single state, release it, justify a second war against the Soviets, and capitulate them alone.
ndb2w4 [0] :: Elect the Fascist king, join the Axis, and help them in the Africa campaign. As you only need to ⟦0⟧ Jerusalem, simply gain enough war score and ask for the control of Palestine.
rh2eih [] :: Something to note is that this number only applies to casualties taken from Germany; you can take as many casualties as you like from other countries you are at war with.
1j3n30l [0,1,2,3,4,5] :: After securing the Mediterranean, it can easily be done with a small 1944 strategic bomber fleet (without any escort) by taking control of ⟦0⟧ ⟦1⟧, ⟦2⟧ ⟦3⟧, and ⟦4⟧ ⟦5⟧.
ignd0t [0,1] :: Pick Patriation and Swastika Clubs as your first focuses. Go for Support a Synarchist Baja when you switch, get ⟦0⟧ in your faction and attack the ⟦1⟧ on the East Coast.
xkx419 [0,1] :: ⟦0⟧ Due to a bug, this achievement cannot be obtained with the ⟦1⟧ enabled, because Germany never progresses beyond "Basic Heavy Tank", no matter how long you wait.
1pce0u8 [0] :: ⟦0⟧ Losing control of a state means losing control of a majority of its victory points. It is possible to lose a few provinces without invalidating the achievement.
5fin2t [] :: Alternatively, play historical Democratic and annex one of the Chinese states that Japan or Manchukuo controlled in the peace deal when the Japanese faction loses.
71p51o [0] :: If ⟦0⟧/ Hungary refuse to become your puppet, simply attack and puppet manually. The national spirit can be given to them via decision once they are your subject.
1upcx03 [0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7] :: ⟦0⟧: You do ⟦1⟧ need to conquer ⟦2⟧ ⟦3⟧, ⟦4⟧ ⟦5⟧, and ⟦6⟧ ⟦7⟧ for this achievement. Therefore, this can be achieved without ever going to war against the Allies.
171odrj [0] :: Requires Germany to follow the Return of the Kaiser branch. Taking Curacao from the ⟦0⟧ will not earn the achievement, as it is counted as part of South America.
7gvw1p [] :: Can be very easily and quickly completed by playing as Czechoslovakia and completing the focus An Entente of Our Own, the faction will start with 100% manifest.
1mb9sri [] :: You don't actually have to release Slovakia to gain this achievement, but it could prove useful to use them as a buffer state by not calling them into the war.
6vf6fw [0] :: Check happens upon operation completion. At least 1 participating operative requires ⟦0⟧, and at least 1 participating operative requires British nationality.
14fy6hz [0,1,2,3,4,5,6] :: ⟦0⟧ You don't need to own all core states of ⟦1⟧, ⟦2⟧, ⟦3⟧ and ⟦4⟧, but you do need to control all core states of ⟦5⟧. Ensure you also control Dodecaneso ⟦6⟧.
1elmw1d [0] :: ⟦0⟧ The time requirement is not necessary to complete the achievement, it automatically unlocks when you occupy the island by force or take it in a peace.
1q0o63w [0,1] :: On historical, rush the ⟦0⟧ path and join the Axis. As soon as possible, justify and declare war on ⟦1⟧. Islands counts as non-contiguous states.
i48yo9 [0,1] :: Follow the strategy for ⟦0⟧. When you have nukes, release the ⟦1⟧ and go to war with them. The US must control the state you drop the nuke in.
dh7cs6 [] :: You only need to have had more than 30% surrender progress after 1941.06.22 once, and not necessarily when at war with the required countries.
rnzxh5 [0] :: Simply go fascist and join Germany in attacking the ⟦0⟧. Mongolia should be in their faction, and you shouldn't need much war score at all.
1v1wime [0,1,2] :: Can be done together with ⟦0⟧ ⟦1⟧: The Middle East in this achievement encompasses the continent, not the strategic region (air zone). ⟦2⟧:
15c81jn [] :: With some luck, you can even annex a state in a peace deal after joining the 2nd Russian Civil War via Intervene in the Soviet Civil War
1x56qn3 [] :: Alternatively help Germany kill the Allies by naval invading the UK after the fall of France then kill Germany. It is safer but harder.
1lyem0h [] :: For this you need to complete the Assassination of Quezon focus after the focus Police Chief Eisenhower has been completed previously.
1qy3cxp [0] :: Play historical and rush down economic focuses. When Germany declares war on ⟦0⟧, join the war and rush down to Send in the Zombies.
113t0st [0,1] :: Simply follow the guide for ⟦0⟧ and build a lot of military factories in your territory. ⟦1⟧ Offmap military factories do not count.
1ky7jhr [] :: If playing on historical, signing the Tripartite pact will cause a civil war. So just flip via decision and join the axis manually.
rhu7qn [] :: When Germany capitulates, all their core states have to fall under your control. France must be in the Allies and have capitulated.
1rrk5j1 [0,1] :: Annex Hungary and ⟦0⟧. Create Austria-Hungary. Release Hungary and ⟦1⟧. You will have decisions to set Habsburgs on their thrones.
fhfqda [] :: Germany must capitulate to you. If it capitulates to another faction and you don't see the popup, you won't get the achievement.
srz2wf [0,1] :: Continuing on from ⟦0⟧, simply justify on ⟦1⟧ and conquer them. Your army should be more than powerful and big enough to do so.
1sv1ysv [0,1] :: ⟦0⟧ The East India Company ⟦1⟧ tag can be only gained by completing Incorporation of the East-India Company national focus.
1owua6c [0] :: Another viable strategy is to play as the ⟦0⟧ on historical, immediately justify on Poland then Germany and rush them down.
uz7ikp [0,1] :: Can be done relatively easily by defeating the Axis together with the Allies and simply taking ⟦0⟧ ⟦1⟧ in the peace deal.
1offx4d [0,1] :: ⟦0⟧ The Hashemite Arab Federation ⟦1⟧ tag can be only gained by completing Hashemite Arab Federation national focus.
1n5pfir [0] :: On historical, ⟦0⟧ also at one point deploys their field marshal and will leave him in the field at least till 1945.
5s4k9n [0] :: Play as ⟦0⟧, join the Comintern, and justify and declare war on a warlord once the Chinese United Front is formed.
1f14vkg [] :: Georg von Trapp can join Austria via event, between 15 and 20 days after completing the Promote Admirals focus.
a8h6rf [0] :: Just play as the ⟦0⟧ and go down the Revisit Colonial Policy branch to release all occupied land as puppets.
